hello i'm keith kendrick i'm the editor
of bbc good food magazine and i'm joined
today by good food writer melissa
thompson
who as well as being a brilliant writer
is also a fantastic cook
so she's here to tell us about the three
classic retro dishes
with a twist that she's created for our
december issue
and the inspiration behind them welcome
melissa
hi keith thanks for having me um yes in
my dishes i'm really excited about them
they
are a marriage of the traditional and
the familiar um to
i guess a lot of british people they're
kind of classic british british dishes
especially for christmas but then also
with a bit of a twist um
and and sort of a twist it's quite
personal to my
loves when it comes to food and
my travels and so we're starting off
with uh
cajun i don't know if people have ever
had a po boy um i went to
new orleans a couple of years ago and
had po boys
um short for poor boys and so these are
kind of these louisiana
sandwiches that are just packed full of
goodness and
you can get them with beef you can get
them with all different sorts of meats
but also with seafood and they have
prawn
po boys or shrimp po boys um
and the shrimp are kind of coated and
then fried
and so to me it made sense to put that
into
a prawn cocktail because i think as well
as taste right texture is really really
important when it comes to food
and so you've got kind of the fresh
lettuce the kind of mariro sauce
um with a bit of a kick and then you've
got the crispy prawns and um
and that it's just really really
pleasing and all the flavors because
you've got the kind of the crispiness
and the prawns and then also the mary
that kind of slight
tang in the mari-rose sauce kind of cuts
through all that and it just
marries really really well it's a really
tasty combination so that's a little bit
about occasion uh spice what's
what's in that what's what's distinctive
about it so
it's just a nice combination of flavors
which i guess
is isn't that specific so you've got um
paprika
you've got a bit of chili um you've got
some garlic salt a bit of onion powder
um a tiny bit of cumin and a few other
little spices so it's just
it's just quite a zingy spice
mix that to me kind of makes me feel
quite happy
um because it's just quite an uplifting
combination of flavors
a bit of heat a bit of aromatic a bit of
zing yeah
a tiny bit of smoke yeah smoke yeah yeah
yeah it's just it's just like a really
nice combination and it works on lots of
different things i've
i've used it as a coating on on on beef
before and smoked it
and um and that's really excellent as a
dry rub yeah um
so it's got loads of possibilities and
it's just it just it just works
that's that sounds like an amazing start
so what are what we are we going into
what's it
what's the next retro twist that you're
adding to this menu
so the next retro twist is um turkey
curry
or curry turkey patties um so they are
a good way to use up leftover turkey
because i think so
most of us you know need away and also
the patties themselves
freeze really well so if you're if
you're a bit done with turkey by boxing
day
you can freeze these and i swear come
january when you're looking for
something a bit tasty
you'll remember these are in the freezer
and you'll be really happy so so
patties like jamaican patties are just
they're so good they're so tasty so
they're maybe like they've got that
distinct yellow
pastry which comes from the turmeric in
the pastry they're really short they've
got loads of like sort of fat in the in
the pastry
um and then you get them with all
different kinds of fillings so you know
kind of like lamb
beef chicken fish saltfish um
and then these were just again it kind
of for me it makes sense i went to
jamaica the first time i went to jamaica
it was quite fraught i won't go into it
um and then we stopped off at
a patty place and just got loads of
patties and i remember that being kind
of because it was a family holiday which
they could always be quite stressful
right and um and i remember sort of
sitting there in silence with our
patties and it was just one of the few
moments of calm we had on that holiday
um and then you know i'm lucky in
southeast london there's quite a few
places i'm quite near to brixton so i
can get my my patty fix
and um and they're just really pleasing
to make they're really nice
they are a good snack for on the go and
again
turkey curry is a classic like it's a
boxing day classic so just put it in
some pastry and make some
and make some patties in there they're
really really good and just a shop
bought curry powder will that suffice or
have you got a special blend
yeah so i use a special blend but to be
honest i i i think when you
when you're using spices they're always
going to be best when you um
use whole spices and you taste them a
little bit and then you grind them back
down but you know i'm not that
precious when it comes to having having
curry mixes and to be honest there's so
much
going on at christmas you know user user
prepared
a pre-made curry spice that's that's
completely fine
okay well no no menu would be complete
without the dessert so what have you uh
what do you
what twist have you got and what's the
classic british
um uh dessert for christmas day and
how have you twisted it well the classic
british dessert
is of course i would say tribal um
everyone loves a trifle
it's um it's just all brilliant things
in one bowl isn't it you've got
cream your custard your jelly your
sponge fingers a little bit of alcohol
with actual effectual jam
um and so mine is
i think it's probably one of the best
trifles you're going to have right so
it's a bit of a
it's a bit of mango and coconut it's a
coconut custard
um and so like coconut for me is just
one of the
the nicest um oh it's just really
comforting it's really comforting i've
been getting into making
my own um coconut milk which is actually
a lot easier than i thought but you can
use kind of
in the recipe um you know shortbread
coconut milk it's absolutely fine
um so it's a it's the sponge fingers and
i've also put just a nod
to my jamaican roots a bit of dark rum
on the sponge fingers
um and then we've got some mango um i
actually used tinned mango because i
think it's
it's just um it's got a nice texture and
i think some of the mangoes you can buy
in the supermarket they can be quite
stringy if they're not
if they're not in season and they're not
kind of they're not ripe um so i use tin
mango
and then i use mango pulp to make the
jelly
um and it's not real i haven't put loads
of gelatine in it so it's kind of it's
not really really firm it's just quite
kind of
still quite smooth and then
a few raspberries so i think mango and
raspberries go together like peas and
carrots they're a really good
combination
um and then coconut um the coconut
custard
on top and then we've got the cream and
then we've got the
toasted coconut on top which again just
gives a lovely little bit of texture
and then just finish it with a bit of um
lime zest and it just uh
makes all kind of alive and zingy it's
delicious it sounds amazing he actually
reminds me of when i was uh when i was a
much younger man i used to get
a shot bought flank case and whip up
some double cream and put mangoes and
raspberries on that
and it was just absolutely sensational
if i was to do kind of a coconut cream
with that flank case i'd get
i think i would be getting close to what
you're talking about there
yeah definitely give that a go because
we always have trifle
trouble is the next day it just turns
into slop so you've really got to devour
it on the uh on the day haven't you
yeah you do and i think for me even the
day after it's still edible it's by day
two
i think it's kind of would that be day
three that i think it's kind of gone a
bit beyond it so
put on your stretchy pants and go for it
brilliant well
check out the details of the of
melissa's menu in those dishes
in the december issue of good food which
is on sale now
and uh melissa's also done a video to
kind of demonstrate
uh those um those recipes um so
uh get into it get get stuck into those
retro classics give it that twist that
smokiness
the spice the uh the sweetness the
zingyness of the
the mangoes and the creaminess of the
coconut it sounds fantastic
merry christmas melissa it's gonna be
merry christmas
i think so too let's eat well